Hi and welcome back in this video we're going to be looking at generating random integers.
The Magic Numbers list that we created in the last you contains two integers and that is that no matter
who that runs the program.
So the magic number at least is always going to be three or nine.
In this case that means that after a few attempts the user knows the magic numbers and therefore it
no longer is as fun.
So what we want to do is generate the numbers in the program randomly so that the user can never guess
what the numbers are going to be in order to do that.
We are going to need to do our first import and import in Python just putting in some code that somebody
else wrote and allows us to use it in our program.
So in this case what we want to do is import a module called random and we're going to be using the
random module in our program to generate random integers
before we do that.
Let's go into IDL E and try out the random module here and then we can put it in our program.
This is a very common sort of workflow.
You'll go into idealy to try something out.
Verify that everything works the way you thought.
And then you use it in your program.
So let's import random here and just move the cursor out the way.
There we go.
I noticed how Python doesn't do anything because it's just an import it doesn't give us any output.
However now we can use methods we can use commands that are inside this random module and random contains
a number of commands.
These commands are all specified in the documentation for the random module and you can access this
implementation online
the way we generate random integers is using the random dot Rand in method and this doesn't give us
a random integer just by itself.
We need to specify the range between which we want integers.
So in this case we want integers between 0 and 9.
Both inclusive.
So if we run that we get 6 which is one of the random integers.
And then what we wanted to do is random run it between 0 and 9 again and we get a different random integer
which is what we wanted from the documentation.
We know that the number generated includes both 0 and 9.
So that is the entire range we're generating any number between 0 and 9 both inclusive.
OK.
So let's go back into our program and now we can say random dot brand end in 0 9.
And here we can say random dot Rand and between 0 and 9.
So is we've got the same code twice and that is not ideal but it'll do for now.
Let's say van't and run it.
And now we can type 3 which we didn't quite get 5.
We didn't quite get it 7.
We didn't quite get it.
So let's try that again.
So if we manage to just put the numbers in.
And in this case 3 was the right number.
So there we go.
And that's it.
So the numbers are being generated randomly and we can verify that because in the second run we got
the three as me the right number.
And in the first round we did not.
So this is how you generate random integers.
And is a small challenge for you generally 10 random numbers and keep track of the minimum number that
you've generated at the end of the generation prints the minimum number out.
So I'll repeat myself printout will calculate 10 random numbers and keep track of the minimum number
that you are generating.
Then at the end printout the minimum number and recomposing the video on trying this for a few minutes
.
See if you can get a solution that works.
And if you don't post the video now then we'll continue and solve it here.
So the problem was to generate 10 random numbers.
Keeping track of the minimum number generated and then Ivey and print that minimum number.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to generate random numbers from 0 between 0 and 100 see.
So the minimum number is going to be of those 10 random numbers generated.
The smallest one.
So I'm going to initialize minimum number to 100.
And the reason I'm initializing to 100 is because when I generate a number I'm going to say if this
number that I've generated is smaller than the minimum assigned minimum to be this number and we'll
see why I'm doing that in just a moment.
The next step is to say for index in range 10 and this is going to generate 10 numbers whether it's
going to iterate through this loop 10 times random number.
It's going to be equal to random.
Don't run in between 0 and 100.
So that's my random number.
And then I'm going to say Print the number generated is not format random number.
The reason I'm printing the random number out is just so I can have a look at the number and make sure
that the minimum is working.
And then I'm going to say if random number is less than minimum
in fact I'm going to say less than or equal to minimum then I'm going to say a minimum equals random
number.
For example so if we generate the number 50 This would be 50 then I would print the number generated
is 50 and 50 is less than 100.
And then I would assign a minimum to be 50.
Next time we generate 60.
So a random number is 60.
I pronounce 60 is 60 less than 50.
No.
So that would not overwrite.
So then we generate 25 is 25 less than 50.
Yes.
So I would set a minimum to be 25.
So this is keeping track of the minimum number generated.
OK.
So that's going to do the entire loop.
And now I'm going to say print minimum and that print 1 which is the smallest number generator.
There you can see in the middle.
So this could be the challenge.
This could be a solution to the challenge which is quite effective and reasonably quick as we can see
it printed the numbers out and then instantly knew the minimum because we had been keeping track of
it in that variable.
OK.
So in this video we've looked at generating random integers and we've made sure that we understand how
to generate random integers and also we've changed our program to use two random integers instead of
two hardcoded or static numbers three and nine which were there before now are replaced by two random
integers.
Do notice that in some cases these and these may be the same which is a bit of a problem but nevertheless
is something that you can keep into account.
But we won't be fixing that just now.
That's everything for this video.
And in the next few videos we're going to be cleaning up this program by defining our own methods so
to use the next video